welcome to the activator speak the sink
October 29th I first up I penis yeah so
um mostly just need to go through some
abusive Steven hopefully today or today
and tomorrow to get this stuff cleaned
up or like yay close to getting out the
door I think I guess in in some other
news that's not strictly a penis but
related and especially if we want to do
so the multi writer stuff the other
parts of the PR that started moving this
penis over pub sub stuff is finally
getting implemented because more than
just us have asked for it
so one of those PRS over there which
basically lets us to have better insight
into you know who sent us a message who
sent who transmitted a message to us so
we can go ask them more questions and
that is Owen yeah the other one is being
able to have pluggable pub/sub routers
which will help us with some of our
other concerns like why don't we have
like wired them such as Nazi ideas or
why early signing things multiple times
things of that nature
cool okay I jerk that's what my bits
yeah so basically this week I added some
like I made it backwards compatible I
made the concept backwards compatible
with what's on master and I created a
test plan on pissed grounds mmm and
today I'm gonna go to the test ground
meeting it's been an hour so just feel
like inside contributing there because I
think it might be the quickest way to
get to merging this into master okay
also update it emerge the server-side
performance improvements afford this
walk that should help cluster I think it
just birth into goodness master this so
we're gonna see if I can deploy master
upon cluster what happens now with a
like you're gonna deploy that someone
yeah I'm gonna see if I can get
flustered you just play that in cluster
and hopefully it'll loop of things was
he
but Hector had been previously funny
about issues were like a block was
wanting to block was it sent but I'm
also getting reports this happening over
22 in some cases anyways so I'm not sure
if it's specific to change don't think
it's significant changes we've made in
bit swap yeah okay yet Express people
point 5
there's the spec aspect comments are
still ongoing I had that one remaining
comment maybe just removing I so the
chorus effect has this constant with
default metadata I'm trying to use to
save space and now realizing it's
probably not necessary Peter did some
work on that and showed that really
doesn't make much of a difference well I
said I'm in objects nice you just remove
it and it's a fight and just make it so
that if you want to have just a metadata
you can specify every simple file in the
directory I haven't really gotten any
comments yay or nay on this so far so I
added some comments because I see you
posted to spec and then I hopefully went
on holiday almost immediately by buck
and I've read a committee thank you I
have maybe just like a UNIX that last
question which either is really stupid
and simple or or deep and for another
time which is like why why do we care
about metadata and like attaching to
files in the
in the general sense I so I move stuff
around I'm not really gonna care I'm
just sending you my data it depends on
the meditators they're like one either
one is executable bits in other
permissions for like a commands you look
at this because if you're seeking
executables it's not nice people have
extra metadata another one is is the
time stamps with like if I are sick from
you and then someone else are six for me
like we just saw through our saying we
do think in and out of IBS we care about
Titan Sam's like within I first
obviously there's no are so you she does
hashes ever that's fine but we're trying
to like ingest and extract from my BFS
we do care about how they the right time
stamps
unfortunately but that does this is it
that doesn't matter if I share with
people right like like I feel like our
sink is like a particular use case it's
almost like an application specific use
case so though so the original use case
that kicked all this off was file system
based package managers so you have all
your packages on the file system
somewhere there have been materialized
there by something like Ossining which
then replicates all the executable bits
and what kind of stuff as well so that's
why we need to have it in UNIX server I
guess I am I guess my question and maybe
like this is effectively what this is is
like this doesn't feel like a general a
general use case it's like UNIX FS - I
want to use our sink right yeah people
just wanna share files both yes but like
in terms of characters a lot of actors
actually depend on the timestamps being
there and being accurate but I'll just
sink anything yeah obviously busy yes
we're trying to target back to futures
here because we know we're not sharing
like streams of bytes we're sharing
chunks of a file system so that includes
things like oh you know executable and
so forth
is it plausible that in like whatever
you know you either unify UNIX FSB to or
or some other point that we like
separate these things and we say if you
want to use do you want to live in this
world or like your metadata is attached
to files because for some reason you
care about timestamps like here you go
and if you're ready for the distributed
world or time stamps make no sense like
here's only recommend so like the time
stamps it always feels or actually there
are no so like I expect to more like if
I care for time so yes I advocated with
time skips if I don't care about the
time tips I just don't include them and
that should just or usually yeah it's
like I'd wear had a little bit of world
without time stance but they can't be
convenient if you could sort of maybe
twist them yeah yeah we definitely need
things like executable bits we also need
things like just like the readwrite next
little bit the read/write bit well just
because like if you're importing and
exporting for file systems those better
if we're not importing action was in
exporting from costumes that we only
knew the executable bit though importing
exporting even fascism said we really
didn't care about like all the other
gear bits because they just need to get
system yeah there there also other like
for now it's they're not going to be in
here but in the future probably what
other extended attributes just because
like they get like UNIX patch managers
and support these labels for security
system stuff like that as well
those are watching us labels are secure
systems are privileged attributes it may
not work I'm sure we'll have to figure
that one out
invite where would be the right place
for me to comment on the stuff would it
be on I don't know if it's really worth
commenting on the UNIX plus 1.5 spec
this is more like general like how I
give asks interacts with UNIX of us so a
lot of these comments are like in I
press / I face or I prefer slash note
supposed to extra session notes I think
we have a metadata issue there's
somewhere if you want to go through and
like create a meta
issue and like colas thinking oh man
that would be awesome we have a lot of
like these issues that are like build up
over time but ya could use some coupling
it's not clear at the moment
unfortunately we know we kind of need
metadata in some cases but we don't know
exactly if we learn to look okay mount
there is a demo of right support up
somebody you take a look at it it's cool
I I just I performance a Dean yeah um
then a bunch of testing there's lots of
lots of data um thing that came up is
there's a potential badger issue either
on either Linux is too slow or Windows
is too fast depending on where you think
the bug flies when sync rights are
turned on which is the default there's
an issue file someone's looking at it in
badger land if you are interested in
just doing things now you can just turn
off sink rights and you will be fast or
you know use Windows we have to figure
out we're gonna do next yeah I wonder if
it's don't know and there's still like a
few more tests I could I could run to
make sure um no but I think I think this
is just like what I think this is just
what it is like we already know the
state here which is there's some amount
of badger earnest things which whether
it's related to X t4 or Linux and I
suspect Linux isn't really clear but I
don't know if it really matters for us
yeah well I suspect it's I really
actually suspect that it's Windows that
somehow on Linux
well they're bunching from these it
could be it could be the windows is
where you give out writing it could be
that when you call sync of my exes if
it's weights and then it only six when
you call sync which means you have like
it is really zero risk so you definitely
in there does everything that just
doesn't mean just everything there bunch
of weird things that could be happening
here but okay I give it a bash people
have time to figure that one out
okay there's a random other thing too
which i thought was relevant which is
that on Windows badger automatically
creates the file like the log sizes are
fully created at startup whereas Linux
creates them incrementally enough that
actually matters but I already do
so like usually what it does is that
people allocate the file upfront and
then it will like fill it in later so
like on because this is always a she
freely actually turn applications that
do this like the usual options for like
p allocating or allocating later I don't
know maybe that could easily be an issue
like if I have to change that later than
I have like up to I know if I don't like
I said the Desai's upfront that may be a
lot faster I wonder if there's a way to
force badger to allocate everything
upfront that's actually please look at
the options deductions I'm not seeing
any option to turn this one log I know
we can we can come back so you know I
just like clear the rest this stuff okay
next up datastore performance-related
I have one up to here at nifty
philosophy Cameron Berg badgered the bed
registered out periodically reflects
unfortunately it the correction is still
not actually doing anything
useful at least what the days were small
huh I've tried adding a couple of
gigabytes and the driver collecting and
it doesn't actually delete anything
because as such I just delete anything
so I've got a deep with this bit more
figure out why it's not deleting
anything yeah okay Walker's asks anyone
have anything they are blocked on or any
reviews or you know Bob I need to
uniques the first comments but we
covered already question about the juicy
stuff just sign up base understanding
does it does it look so like you you
can't GC while you're while you're
adding stuff so when you're adding stuff
it's not going to have any problems I
think it'll give you add some in the
wrong order and there's a thing that's
not and you can just GC it mmm oh sorry
you know ipfs yes and I because we do
lock so we take it like but everybody
sorry take a breather lock and then when
everyone do you see we take a right lock
and yep and then I D like actually will
not have a will occasionally check to
see like hey is someone trying to take
the right lock if they are trying to
take the right leg will take the right
lock code to do the car discovery one
which is unfortunate because yes it's
pause the world like you can no longer
add what we're selecting thing this is
like the big one of the big reasons
we're the ones like switch to a
different government system like any
criminal system or something like some
kind of concurrent garbage collection
system but we don't really have a
concrete plan for that good my plans you
should include like records County not
just somewhere and then like then if you
do something out but when you add a file
you would by looking for reference
counts yeah but we don't really do that
I also notice that badger doesn't delete
any of the V log files when you do a
repo GC does that intention a it
I'm not sure I actually don't know I
that was my point here with like when
you called repo GC it doesn't actually
play space now there is a folks that we
call on Bajor itself it tells it to so
you have to clean up things but it still
doesn't know disk space I don't know
what's going on here it may just be that
like yeah it doesn't pollute files it
just like frees up space you can add
more data if that's the case that I
really want to talk to about to say hey
guys we make this not work this way but
on the other hand like it I know it's
like I do that the way they do DC's they
rewrite log files templates like uh
specifically blog files but a bunch of
data in it they'll sample it to see like
how many chunks should be free and
should be deleted and if they seem like
over a certain fraction actually no I
take it back
yeah if I were subtracting to be deleted
then they go through rewrite the entire
log file just like I'll shout your desk
again so that should do it
if they're doing in place it might be an
issue I don't know okay I don't want to
hold you guys for too long
any other questions everything from
parking lot just that I'm still planning
on reaching out to the packages sorry
Stephen and and just want to confirm who
I'm reaching out to about what and
probably see if and all that you did
review these emails before I send them
to make sure I'm not saying anything
inaccurate or misleading um yeah just
want to make sure that that seems okay
okay you don't because have Jake's um
other thing it's super fast
totally flat my head talked paying on it
when I remember
maybe you want us to comment on that
roadmap issue 2020 cleaning yeah I don't
know that was this sir different meeting
but I I know that something will Mike
to-do list that I haven't done yet
please do everyone's welcome you know
the thing was actually and so we were
starting this meeting at 8:15 because
the previous meeting went until 8:15 and
so it was like two 45 minute meetings we
just moved that meeting later so if we
want to start this meeting at either
8:00 or 8:30 to not be on a 15 minute
boundary I think like small plus we tend
to only use half an hour the small plus
one for moving this to 8:30 and waking
me 32 9 but curious uh so I'm just
looking at my calendar and I'm sitting
by frost I think back to 7:30
next week because it's time change stuff
I don't know yeah maybe you're right to
earlier they celebrate huh but we could
just have the pause
you
I'd say wait till next we can figure out
what the times they're actually for this
video
yeah something after all I guess this
place
anyone else have questions or parking
lots are there things
miss teevan I guess I'm just noticing
let me at the badger garbage collection
thing that you have to run garbage
collection more than once because each
time you run it it deletes that most one
log file yeah we do yeah so like if you
look at when you wouldn't the system
what you see it runs it in a loop until
it doesn't do anything else I think this
could still technically not finished
collecting but it doesn't the best it
can at least there we have another
background loop they just like sort of
purely calls Garber suction actually has
two two timers where it's like the long
timer it waits while and then it calls
conversation once and then if it
succeeds it's a short timer and then
calls it again I mean keeps up to me and
until it stops just hitting it whatever
like that's how we like it sort of in
the background clean up like content
ready records and stuff like that but
yeah baby now it's not to anything
actually so we'll have to figure that
one so okay I'm gonna call time I don't
see any other questions see y'all good
luck